Hello and welcome to the Rusty spike, your Weekly News podcast on all things Rust.

I'm your host Jonathan Turner and this is episode 28th May 2nd 2018.

To start things off this week, let's talk of bit about some companies using Rust.

So there are three companies that recently released a bit of their experience reports for using Rust.

The first one called Figma, they do Graphics programming on the web, a kind of an interactive Graphics environment.

They talked about how a switch from a JavaScript based solution to a Rust based solution actually had quite a big impact in terms of performance.

The next article is by Rust user called Sentry and I'll definitely link that in the description as well.

And the third one is called Polysync.
So we see in self-driving cars in the past this is a another company that's based out of Ann Arbor Michigan that's working on self-driving car technology and one of the things they put out is an article describing why they aren't doing some of that work and see but instead in Rust and to their mind how important Rust is to their software.
It's a pretty cool read I'll also make sure to link that as well.

Our next news item follows on the chain of some of these cool announcements by big names and software and hardware beginning to use Rust.
So I've heard about Facebook and some of their tools, this week of the phone company Nokia is come out with their own but a software using Rust.

It's called `nperf` which is a performance profiler I haven't had a chance to use this yet but I'll definitely link to it as I see any name that you know start to use Rust I think it's totally cool to see some nice hardware vendors start to experiment with it.

So maybe one day and maybe one day soon we'll be able to walk into the store buy a phone and know that the software running on the phone as at least in part written in Rust

Hey you, you in the back, you're being really quiet.
I'm going to ask you a question where did you go to school and did it teach Rust.

[Can't catch] announcement this week at the University of Maryland College Park is starting to teach Rust in its survey course.
I remember when I was going to school and they taught all the fundamentals of computer science and see.

By the time I left that actually had transferred from see over to Java and most of the fundamental computer science courses were taught in Java.

Maybe sometime in the future we'll see that some of the fundamental courses in the next generation of computer science curriculum will be taught and Rust.

I mean how awesome would that be our next news item is about regular Expressions.

I know those of you who already know that this bit of news as far as probably cheering in the back of your mind.

So they regex Crate by Burnt Sushi is it extremely popular crate on crates.io.

I think it's been downloaded millions of times at this point lots of things depend on it or have dependencies that depend on it, it's definitely very fundamental crate in the ecosystem.

This week it hit 1.0.

It's always good to see a major crate make it over the line to be 1.0.

Yes you that much more confidence that Rust is indeed maturing over time.

Does you caring about compiler performance which I'm sure are 99% of you.

There [Can't catch] an article written recently about some recent performance improvements to the compiler.

Each improvement may only be a person or two but as you can imagine these tend to add up.

So when you get a good dozen of these the percentage actually becomes noticeable.

Nico Nethercote has been working in the background on some of these compiler performance improvements, and it's recently written a Blog talking about each of these performance improvements how much gain you was able to get and showing some of the benchmarks how they improved over that time.

And the last bit of news this week is the next in a very long going long going is that [Can't catch] going.

Next long ongoing saga non lexical lifetimes improving the bar checker excetera the bar check her being that corner piece of the Rust experience and a quarter piece of the rest compiler really does need that loving care.

So that it continues to evolve and improve Nico of course being one of the long-standing authors of the bar checker and some of the technology there has been looking recently into how to improve it, how about it like this in the description,
so you can read it for yourself it gets pretty little technical
but it's a cool way of seeing kind of into Nico's thinking that's a great it's a great article and check it out.

And that's it for this week, thanks again so much for listening and as always keep on Rusting
